Data Quality Assessment - Missing Values Check
Project Overview
This project provides a Python script for assessing data quality by checking for missing values in a dataset. The script loads a dataset, identifies any missing data, and provides both a count and percentage of missing values for each column.

Files
missing_values_check.py: Python script that performs the missing values check.
MachineLearningRating_v3.txt: The dataset file used for analysis (pipe-delimited).
missing_values_report.csv: The output report generated by the script, containing the count and percentage of missing values for each column.
Installation
Prerequisites
To run this project, you need the following:

Python 3.x installed on your machine
Required Python libraries: pandas
You can install the necessary libraries using pip:

bash
Copy code
pip install pandas
Dataset
Make sure the dataset MachineLearningRating_v3.txt is in the same directory as the Python script. The dataset should be in a pipe-delimited (|) format. If your file is located in a different directory, update the file_path variable in the script accordingly.

Usage
Clone the repository or download the files.

Place the dataset MachineLearningRating_v3.txt in the project directory.

Open a terminal and navigate to the project folder.

Run the Python script to check for missing values:

bash
Copy code
python missing_values_check.py
The script will output:

A count of missing values in each column.
A percentage of missing values in each column.
An optional CSV file missing_values_report.csv with the same information for future reference.
Example Output
When you run the script, you'll see an output similar to:

sql
Copy code
Missing Values in Each Column:
TransactionMonth      3
IsVATRegistered       0
ProductID             0
...

Percentage of Missing Values in Each Column:
TransactionMonth      0.15%
IsVATRegistered       0.00%
ProductID             0.00%
...

Missing values report has been saved as 'missing_values_report.csv'.
Configuration
You can modify the file_path in the script if your dataset is located in a different directory or named differently.
To save the missing values report in a different format (e.g., .xlsx), adjust the to_csv() method accordingly.
Output Files
missing_values_report.csv: A CSV file that contains a summary of the missing values in each column, including the total count and the percentage of missing values.
Contributing
Feel free to contribute to this project by submitting issues or pull requests for enhancements and bug fixes.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
