EDA Visualization with Outlier Detection
Overview
This project involves performing Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) on a dataset and producing insightful visualizations. The main objectives are to detect outliers using box plots and create three creative and beautiful plots that capture key insights gained from the EDA.

Dataset
The dataset used for this analysis is MachineLearningRating_v3.txt, which contains various fields related to insurance policies, vehicle information, and premiums.

Requirements
To run the provided Python script, you need the following Python packages:

pandas: For data manipulation and analysis.
matplotlib: For creating static, animated, and interactive visualizations.
seaborn: For statistical data visualization.
You can install these packages using pip:

sh
Copy code
pip install pandas matplotlib seaborn
Setup
Clone the Repository

Clone this repository to your local machine:

sh
Copy code
git clone <repository-url>
cd <repository-directory>
Place the Dataset

Ensure that the dataset file MachineLearningRating_v3.txt is located in the same directory as the script or update the file path in the script accordingly.

Create the Plots Directory

The script will save the generated plots in a directory named plots. The script includes code to create this directory if it doesn't already exist.

Running the Script
To run the script and generate the visualizations:

Save the provided Python code to a file, for example, eda_visualization.py.

Run the script using Python:

sh
Copy code
python eda_visualization.py
The script will produce the following plots and save them in the plots directory:

premiums_by_cover_type.png: Box plot showing the distribution of premiums by cover type.
trends_in_premiums.png: Line plot showing trends in premiums over time.
vehicle_power_vs_cubic_capacity.png: Scatter plot showing the relationship between vehicle power and cubic capacity.
Plot Descriptions
Distribution of Premiums by Cover Type

Type: Box plot
Description: Displays the variation and outliers in premiums for different cover types.
Trends in Premiums Over Time

Type: Line plot
Description: Shows how premiums have changed over time, with different lines for each cover type.
Vehicle Power vs. Cubic Capacity

Type: Scatter plot
Description: Examines the relationship between vehicle power (kilowatts) and engine cubic capacity, with color coding for different vehicle types.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
