
Insurance Data Analysis Project
Overview
This project is focused on analyzing an insurance dataset using Python. The dataset contains various columns that provide insights into different aspects of the insurance industry. The provided code reads the dataset, displays basic information, and performs an initial analysis, including displaying summary statistics and unique values for each column.

Files
insurance_data.csv: The dataset containing the insurance-related data.
analysis.py: The Python script containing the analysis code.
Setup and Requirements
Prerequisites
To run the analysis code, you need to have the following Python libraries installed:

pandas: Used for data manipulation and analysis.
matplotlib: Used for data visualization.
seaborn: Used for statistical data visualization.
To install the required packages, you can use pip:

bash
Copy code
pip install pandas matplotlib seaborn
How to Run the Code
Ensure the dataset is in the same directory: Place the insurance_data.csv file in the same folder as the analysis.py script.
Run the Python script: You can execute the script using a Python environment or command line:
bash
Copy code
python analysis.py
Code Breakdown
Read the CSV file: The script reads the dataset (insurance_data.csv) using pandas.

Display the first few rows: df.head() is used to display the first few rows of the dataset, providing a quick look at the data.

Dataset Information: The df.info() method prints out the basic information about the dataset, such as the number of non-null entries and data types for each column.

Summary Statistics: The df.describe() method provides a summary of the dataset’s numerical columns, including metrics like mean, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum values.

Unique Values: The script loops through each column in the dataset and prints the number of unique values, giving a sense of how varied the data is in each column.

Example Output
The output of running the script will include:

The first few rows of the dataset
Basic dataset information such as data types, null values, etc.
Summary statistics for numerical columns
The count of unique values for each column in the dataset
Next Steps
After the initial analysis, you can extend the project by adding further steps, such as:

Visualizing data trends using matplotlib or seaborn.
Handling missing values or data cleaning.
Applying machine learning models to predict insurance-related outcomes.
License
This project is open-source and available under the MIT License.
