Overview
This project performs user segmentation based on network experience metrics using the K-Means clustering algorithm. The goal is to group users into distinct clusters based on their network performance attributes such as TCP retransmission, RTT (Round Trip Time), and Throughput. Visualizations are provided to better understand the clustering results.

Libraries Used:
pandas: For data manipulation and analysis.
numpy: For numerical operations.
scikit-learn: For machine learning algorithms like K-Means and preprocessing.
matplotlib: For plotting graphs.
seaborn: For data visualization.
Files
your_file_name.csv: Input data file containing network experience metrics (TCP retransmission, RTT, Throughput).
Clustering Process
Load the Data: Data is loaded from a CSV file.
Data Preprocessing:
Missing values in relevant columns are filled with the mean of the respective columns.
Features tcp_retransmission, rtt, and throughput are selected for clustering.
Data Normalization:
Feature scaling is applied using StandardScaler to normalize the data, as K-Means is sensitive to feature magnitude.
K-Means Clustering:
The K-Means algorithm is applied to group the data into 3 clusters.
Cluster Summary:
The characteristics of each cluster are summarized by calculating the mean of the features within each cluster.
Visualization:
Scatter plots and pair plots are created to visualize the clusters based on network performance metrics.
Instructions to Run:
Install the required libraries if they are not installed:
Copy code
pip install pandas numpy scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn
Update the file_path in the script to the location of your CSV file.
Run the script in your Python environment (Jupyter Notebook, VSCode, etc.).
The script will display:
A summary of the mean values for each cluster.
A scatter plot showing the clustering results.
A pair plot for a detailed visualization of clusters.
Key Outputs:
Cluster Summary: Provides insights into the average TCP retransmission, RTT, and Throughput for each cluster.
Scatter Plot: Visual representation of clusters based on Throughput and TCP Retransmission.
Pair Plot: Detailed view of relationships between features and cluster distribution.
Notes:
The number of clusters (k=3) can be changed depending on your requirements.
Ensure that the input CSV file contains columns for tcp_retransmission, rtt, and throughput to avoid errors.






