Data Distribution Analysis Project
Overview
This project focuses on analyzing the distribution of the Province and Gender columns from a dataset to help determine how to split the data. Using Python's seaborn and matplotlib libraries, the code generates visualizations to display the frequency distribution of these categorical variables.

Files
insurance_data.csv: The dataset used in the analysis (not included; ensure you have the appropriate dataset).
distribution_analysis.py: The Python script containing the code for plotting the distributions of Province and Gender.
Setup and Requirements
Prerequisites
To run the script, you'll need the following Python libraries installed:

pandas: For data manipulation.
seaborn: For statistical data visualization.
matplotlib: For creating visual plots.
You can install these libraries using pip:

bash
Copy code
pip install pandas seaborn matplotlib
How to Run the Code
Ensure the dataset is available: Place the insurance_data.csv file in the same directory as the distribution_analysis.py script.

Run the Python script: Execute the script using a Python environment or command line:

bash
Copy code
python distribution_analysis.py
Code Breakdown
Plot the distribution of 'Province':
The code uses sns.countplot() to visualize how frequently each value appears in the Province column. The plot provides insights into the distribution of provinces within the dataset.

Plot the distribution of 'Gender':
Similarly, the code generates a count plot for the Gender column to observe the balance between different genders in the dataset.

Display the plots:
The plots are displayed using plt.show() from the matplotlib library. Each plot is titled to indicate the distribution being shown, making it easy to interpret.

Example Output
Running the script will generate two visual plots:

Province Distribution Plot: A bar plot showing the frequency of each province in the dataset.
Gender Distribution Plot: A bar plot displaying the distribution of different genders.
These visualizations will help in understanding the distribution and guide how to split the data (e.g., for modeling or analysis purposes).

Next Steps
You can extend this analysis by:

Balancing the dataset: After analyzing the distributions, you can implement techniques to handle imbalanced data, such as oversampling or undersampling.
Exploring other variables: Perform a similar distribution analysis on other relevant categorical or numerical variables in the dataset.
License
This project is open-source and is available under the MIT License.
